Create one challenging clinical vignette question (with four wrong answers with a final fifth answer that is correct) that incorporates, patient cultural diversity, inpatient/outpatient care settings, basic science, history and physical examination, diagnosis information, labs and imaging, clinical intervention information if appropriate and pertinent to a patient with specifically [[INSERT]]. 

Include full vital signs, focused physical examination, pertinent labs or imaging results. Then provide a moderately challenging clinical vignette question for a clinical student that assesses their ability to educate the patient and provide appropriate health information for the condition. Provide the rationale of all answers and next steps for the student.

<RULES>
Physician associate students should apply basic sciences (anatomy, physiology, microbiology, genetics, etc.) to diagnose and manage medical conditions, recognize disease associations and complications through scientific concepts, understand public health principles for managing both individual and population health, and identify underlying processes or pathways responsible for specific diseases. 

Physician Associate students should recognize diverse cultural and religious beliefs in healthcare, identify health disparities and risks affecting certain groups, and understand the process for obtaining informed consent. They must be knowledgeable about patient code status, advanced directives, organ donation, and the roles of interprofessional healthcare team members. Ensuring patient safety through measures like the Universal Protocol and mandated reporting, addressing medical ethical issues, and understanding risk management are crucial. Effective resource utilization and strategies to navigate legal and policy issues for marginalized populations are also essential responsibilities. 

Physician Associate students should conduct comprehensive and focused interviews with physical examinations tailored to the patient's age, gender, reason for visit, urgency, based on patient’s ability to provide history or participate in the exam. They must recognize and interpret essential historical and physical examination information, identify history linked to specific medical conditions, and use required examination techniques. From this information, they should determine the need for other resources to expand knowledge of the patient’s history and exam findings and differentiate between disorders based on the interpreted data. 

Based on initial findings from history and physical examination, a Physician Associate students should select appropriate laboratory and diagnostic studies. The appreciation for testing should include an understanding of indications, risks, yield, interpretation of studies with recognition of normal and abnormal values, cost, invasiveness, and any contraindications for studies. They should determine the need for additional studies and identify the best diagnostic studies for certain conditions. They should refine differential diagnoses from their initial findings and select the most likely diagnosis based on this additional comprehensive data. 

Based on data obtained in history and physical examination, physician associate students should be aware of appropriate therapeutic clinical interventions for different diagnoses, techniques for common clinical interventions, understand risks and benefits to common interventions, provide relevant counseling and education on interventions, and monitor patients’ post-intervention for complications and adverse reactions. For emergent, acute or chronic diagnoses they should understand referral strategies to medical and surgical services for intervention and determine suitable follow-ups, and intervention plans aligned with diagnoses. They should understand appropriate discharge planning post intervention with need for medication reconciliations prior to discharge, follow up care and any non-pharmacologic treatments such as physical/occupational therapies, counselling or community resources.  

Based on information obtained from history and physical, laboratory or imaging as well as clinical interventions performed a physician associate student should be able to pick an appropriate pharmacologic treatment. They should know the pharmacokinetics, indications, and contraindications essential for safe medication selection and administration. They should understand dosing for major drug classes, recognize side effects, adverse reactions, identify risks of drug interactions from polypharmacy, and know appropriate responses to drug toxicity. After selection they should understand monitoring of pharmacotherapy for compliance, side effects, adverse reactions, and effectiveness, as well as be able to modify pharmacologic regimens as needed for continuing care.  

Physician associate students should provide counseling and education on preventable diseases, communicable diseases, immunization schedules, and healthy lifestyles, tailored to patient and family needs. During well-care visits, they should conduct appropriate history and physical examinations based on the patient's age, recognize risk factors for preventable conditions, and understand the impacts of stress, aging, family roles, and environmental and occupational exposures on health. They must identify signs of abuse or neglect, recognize common barriers to care, and weigh risks versus benefits of immunization. They should select appropriate screening studies, understanding growth and development milestones, and provide age-appropriate anticipatory guidance. 

 